Academic Integrity Guidelines for Computer Science
==================================================

The purpose of this document is to interpret [Charleston Southern University's
definitions of academic dishonesty and
plagiarism](https://www.charlestonsouthern.edu/wp-content/uploads/Policy-R-58-updated-Feb-2023.pdf)
in the context of computer science courses. These guidelines clarify these
policies but do not supersede them. Many of these principles are also drawn from
professional codes of ethics in computing, such as the [ACM Code of Ethics and
Professional Conduct](https://www.acm.org/code-of-ethics), which apply general
ethics to all computing activities.

Goals differ between professional and educational settings. In a professional
setting, the primary goal is often to produce working code or other artifacts
with integrity. In an educational setting, the primary goal is learning with
integrity.

Collaboration
-------------

Computer science is a collaborative discipline. Teams can accomplish more than
individuals. However, your professor may require that you work individually to
better serve or assess your learning. In your computer science classes, many
assignments will permit or require collaboration. Collaboration may be an
explicit learning goal of the assignment, or collaboration may be used in
service of other learning goals.

When you turn in collaborative work, all contributors must be clearly
identified. All contributors are accountable for all parts of jointly authored
work. All contributors are responsible for learning from each part of the
assignment.

Assistance
----------

Whether working as a team or individually, you may seek assistance on most
assignments from many sources, including professors, mentors, tutors, and lab
aides. Sometimes, you may also seek assistance from classmates or other
students.

Assistance with programming exercises may serve one of three purposes:

1.  To help you get started,

2.  to correct a syntax error, or

3.  to debug code that does not work as intended.

In all cases, those assisting should ask questions instead of providing answers.
Never write code for another student or show them your solutions. Moving away
from the computer, for example, to draw on a whiteboard, will help to emphasize
concepts. Whether giving or receiving such assistance, your goal should be
learning. Remember that the responsibility for completing the assignment belongs
to the learner.

Websites such as stackoverflow.com assist both professionals and learners. If
your professor encourages their use, these sources may suggest approaches or
help you debug your code. In using such sites, again, your goal should be
learning.

Others' intellectual contributions to your work must be explicitly acknowledged
(e.g., by a comment in your code). Such acknowledgments credit others for their
contributions, and allow readers of your code to consult the resources you used.
People should be thanked by name; written information should be identified by
URL or bibliographic citation.

Like proofreading, help with syntax errors is not considered an intellectual
contribution (even though you might learn from it!) and does not require
explicit acknowledgment.

Different courses have different learning goals. Your professor will state
policies regarding appropriate collaboration and assistance in the course
syllabus or individual assignments. If you are unsure if assistance is
appropriate on an assignment, ask your professor!

Academic Integrity and Professionalism
--------------------------------------

Representing one's work honestly is critical to the academic pursuit of truth.
In an educational setting, assigned work is intended to help you learn. Academic
dishonesty undermines your learning opportunities and results in unfair and
inaccurate assessment of your learning.

Beyond the academic setting, honesty is a key aspect of professionalism. We do
not wish to graduate professionals who would put their employers or the public
at risk by copying code without permission or attribution, using code they do
not understand, taking false credit, or pretending that code works correctly
when it does not.

Academic Dishonesty in Computer Science
---------------------------------------

Academic dishonesty in computer science courses may include:

-   Falsification of program output;

-   Seeking inappropriate collaboration or assistance;

-   Failure to acknowledge collaboration or assistance;

-   Plagiarism of code.

It is always dishonest to present code as your own when obtained from another
student or a public source, whether you understand that code or not.

You are also committing academic dishonesty if you knowingly help others to
misrepresent their work (e.g., by providing inappropriate assistance or by
publishing solutions to homework problems).

Plagiarism in Computer Science
------------------------------

For many simple problems, code must follow a particular structure or pattern to
solve the problem correctly and efficiently. Such patterns may be developed by
your textbook or in class or may be inferred by reading many programs that solve
similar problems. Using these common patterns is not plagiarism and does not
require citation.

As problems grow in complexity, so do programs. The programmer must exercise
creativity to identify alternative approaches and wisdom to choose the best
approach. Many further choices are required to translate an approach into code.
Programs are copyrighted works, just like books, paintings, and musical
compositions. Programmers have distinctive voices that vary in their maturity.
An experienced programmer, such as your professor, can often tell when one
programmer has copied the work of another.

Any code copied or adapted from another source must be cited with a comment. In
your comment, provide a URL or other bibliographic information as required to
find the original source. If you use a module that has an explicit license
agreement, that license must be preserved along with the module.

If you are using an idea from a published program or another source beyond the
textbook, cite that source and explain what idea you are using.

Like written English, programming languages do not explicitly distinguish
between quotation and paraphrase. Your comments should explain whether you have
copied code, adapted code, or used the ideas of others to inspire your own code.

Citation Examples
-----------------

It is more important to follow the spirit of these guidelines than to use a
specific citation format. These examples are provided as suggestions only.

Citing a person: *Morgan helped me understand how to use a dictionary to map
from names to locations.*

Citing an online source: *I was having trouble opening files from the web.
StackOverflow showed me how to use the encoding parameter of the open() method:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28104377/how-to-convert-utf-8-code-to-symbol-characters-in-python*

Using a licensed module: *John Zelle's graphics.py module is licensed under the
GNU Public License (GPL). When you download this module and use it in your code,
you may not delete the preamble that identifies the author and the license
agreement.*

Artificial Intelligence (AI)
----------------------------

While proper AI use is an essential skill, misuse of AI will be a constant
concern. AI misuse in an academic setting short-circuits the learning process to
give the illusion of proficiency without the necessary depth. This is not a new
problem. The advent of the pocket calculator posed a similar problem in that
students could arrive at an answer without understanding it. The proper purpose
of AI use in academics focuses on developing personal problem-solving skills.

*Before* using AI assistance, check with your instructor to determine if it is 
(1) prohibited, (2) permitted with conditions, or (3) required for a given 
assignment.

1.  AI use may be **prohibited** to ensure that you have the basic concepts,
    just as children should be comfortable performing division in mathematics
    before being allowed to divide using a calculator.

2.  AI use may be **permitted** with conditions. Understand the limitations of
    AI and that you are responsible for the output whether it is AI-generated.
    Be prepared to explain how you used AI to accomplish the task and ensure
    that you cite it properly. Your professor may have specific instructions for
    your course such as saving prompts.

3.  Your professor may **require** the use of AI for certain assignments. All
    the aspects mentioned for permitted use apply. Because the AI aspect is part
    of the learning experience, expect detailed instruction on reporting
    requirements, such as saving prompts, how you validated the results, and how
    useful AI was in accomplishing the task.

Acknowledgments
---------------

This document was adapted from [Whitman College's
Guidelines](https://cs.whitman.edu/~grayc/unixtut/integrity.txt), which is
licensed under a [Creative Commons
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.0/). The authors draw
upon ideas in the Grinnell College Computer Science Academic Honesty Policy,
particularly in our discussion of academic honesty and professionalism, as well
as the ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Practice. Also, they draw upon Tips
for Tutors provided by csteachingtips.org in our discussion of assistance with
programming exercises.
